How can we further augment and
orchestrate the foundation models?
So, so far, what we were discussing is how can you know, we discussed about the
different uh genea patterns,
you can directly call these on the foundation models only, right?
When uh when we look at the foundation models,
how do we use these foundation models to understand this?
Right. So what I'll do is I will also um create
uh
a blank presentation.
And uh now in this, let me just, you know, run you through how uh you know,
uh at a very high level, a conceptual uh architecture might look like, right?
So at the, at the base, right, we have this foundation models.
So these foundation models that is the it could be the GP T 3.5 GP T four Lama,
whatever, right?
So that is the foundation model. Then
on top, then we have
the
dumps.
So
typically when um
when we get uh consider the scenario, right?
And user is uh you want to summarize a particular information,
right? So for that, you might ask uh in a in the cha
GP T, right?
So can you summarize this particular information So
what what is it that we typically send?
So, so we ask for a pattern,
right? And then we send an instruction to the foundation model.
So the key components that we make use of, so we make use of this here,
we have the pattern
and then we also have the application. So there is an application as well.
So this application could be any interface,
a conversational interface or it could be, you know,
in if we look at our technology delivery life cycle, right,
we have different itsm tools, let's take service.
Now now in service now say for example,
a ticket company is being raised by the level one support team,
the service desk team, right?
So they write the description of the particular ticket.
So it might be a lengthy description.
Now, if we have to understand what the particular description is,
we might want to summarize that.
So
that information, right? This can be actually create a pattern,
right?
And then from this, you generate a prompt,
a prompt is nothing but an instruction which we will cover then.
So once we have this, then it goes to the large language model,
whichever the model is and it will extract that information.
So and and then based on that,
it will actually generate that particular response
and then it will be sent back to that particular application.
So it can be the service now or it can be the charge GP T whichever right?
So if you look at this, right? So when you just want to do a simple summarization,
so you might, so the information you need to give a pattern
or you know, the what is the action that needs to be taken,
whether you have to summarize it
or you know, if you want to go ahead and generate a user story, right?
So if it is uh if you're having a banking application
and in that, you might want to, you know, create a user story, you know,
for a particular uh uh you know, business process.
Uh And if it's a new project,
you might just want to go ahead and generate user
story or you might want to generate a test case,
you give the pattern,
you give the instruction which is nothing but the prompt and then
it is sent to the foundation model or the large language model,
uh it uh passes it, it uh and it provides the response to this application,
but this is what the uh most uh simplest form. But typically what happens is
especially when it comes to our client
context in the technology delivery life cycle.
So if we go ahead only with directly, you know, uh you know,
obtaining the information from the foundation models,
I I it might not be correct, right? It might not be
uh as per the client specific context
because
I if, if you say, for example,
you're actually what you want to generate and
use user story for a credit card application,
then you need to really understand, you know, what, what is,
what are the dependent applications, you know,
you might want to look at the dependencies, all those other interactions as well,
right?
So for that, you need that actual context or you know,
for the uh of your client and that it needs to be available.
So it should be uh and that is something we need to maintain.
And um
so the context or it uh and this typically is uh stored in uh uh
database,
which is called as a vector database.
Now,
when we actually um you know, we are trying to generate that particular user story.
So what happens is we try to get that context uh from that pattern,
we try to make a search in this vector database.
But prior to that, what we also do is
we
convert it right.
So into a machine understandable format,
this is converted into a numerical format.
This entire process is called as an embedding. It goes to the vector database,
this vector database,
how, how different it is from a traditional
rela
uh you know R DB MS database, right? So
in a, in a R DB M MS database, you have everything in terms of the rows and columns.
But in a vector database,
it's all you know all data is there in a three dimensional or in an N
dimensional space, right? So it, it that is, that is what it is. So
now what happens is when you actually uh uh you know, want to get or generate a prompt,
you know, to get information, right? So you get the context of your client,
you know, by embedding that uh your client specific data
uh from the vector database, then you generate the particular prompt.
Now this this will actually go into the large language model,
right? Then the response will be formatted,
right? And then it will be sent back to the application.
So this way what happens is now
you will not be having
uh
you will be getting information specific to your client
and it will not be anything uh you know,
from a public data store.
It is, it will all this will be specifically for your client context.
So the and that way we can be assured that
uh the information
that is generated is not a hallucinated information be
or because gen generally what happens is uh if uh
I'm sure you would have all tried out right in
either
bad or
chai
pt and all that, you know, it goes ahead and it might hallucinate
or it might become very creative and imaginative when you do a con
embedding or uh uh
you give the context, right? So then it will give information as expected.
And so to, to uh your application, so it fulfills the criteria that is even.
So this is how it actually works. So
question to all,
let's say the application is a chat board.
And in the chat board,
someone is asking,
can you tell me what is the capital of
particular countries?
Do you need
the right side part of the architecture, the embedding and vector drivers?
It is no
why?
Because
you see this is a public data. This is not your client specific data.
It is a very generic question. Common question
and LMS
are already pre trained on this public information.
So your right side part is not required. But
if a question comes
in my bank,
when a payment fails,
how can I reprocess a payment?
Now when that question comes,
then
it is a very bank specific payment process
and your
LMS are not trained on your bank specific context.
In that case,
you have to feed
your banking processes, process documents into your work.
That's where your context lies or knowledge lies
and hence your right side part will be coming into action
to respond to that question.
So first it will search
the payment failure related processes
in vector
uh get the co
do the cosine
search and get the context, then pass it to LLM
to frame the
uh send like the format, the outcome, the response as response format
and then pass it to the chat.
So whether you need
vector vector
embedding and all it depends upon what kind of use case you have.
OK.
So that's the difference
it
or that is the importance of vector
in the entire architecture.
So why we went ahead with that particular uh you
know that um creation of the particular figure uh diagram is
uh primarily to understand, you know,
what are the uh layers in a gen ja I application, right.
So uh at the foremost, we have the foundation model which is the LLM instance,
then we have the data,
the context, then we have the prompt which is made, which is required.
Then the application or the UX layer there are different uh ex examples, right?
So when we look at the application, we have different examples like the chad
pt,
the github
copilot, then the prompts, these are those instructions,
then the application data, it's more the uh uh you know the vector data.
Then again,
the foundation models which are the different uh you know G the GP T 3.54 and so on
right now. And uh whatever we discussed uh in that particular uh figure now,
so that is what is actually uh represented over here, right?
So typically uh say, for example, if uh there is a job failure, right?
And uh so then typically, well, you know,
iiw what is the reason uh you know job failure?
So then
uh you know what the root cause analysis, right?
So analyze the logs,
then a prompt might be created and then it goes to the large language model.
But uh when we actually uh look at only the um you know,
when we try to obtain information from the public data,
it might not meet the client context.
So that's why we go into the context, you know, the our knowledge documents,
right?
So here that is what we, there is a terminology that we use,
which is called as a retrieval, augmented generation.
When we say retrieval or augmented generation or rag,
it is more to actually extract the context from our vector data store, you know, so
all our patterns, all the information it is embedded into a numerical form.
Then from there
uh
in the vector data store, there is a tree that is available.
So it creates a kind of a knowledge uh tree and then, you know,
tries to create what are the relationships,
entities and all those and then it generates, you know, it,
it extracts that particular context, then it um you know, gets the data,
it creates the prompt and then uh it provides
the risk responses back to that particular application.
So this is what uh it's all about.
For example, uh if we have to, you know the,
if that there is an issue with the a payment processing application in your client,
right?
We just, you know, ask that particular query in charge GP T or in part,
it will not be able to tell why is there an payment processing failure in you know,
application XYZ in your client,
it will not be able to because it does not
have that particular context which might be there in your
system understanding documents or your standard operating procedures or your
design documents or in your run books or playbooks,
right?
That information is not available, that context is missing.
So that is why what we do is we
vectorize that information.
So we store that up or upload that particular information
into a knowledge repository, which is called as the vector database.
And this vector database stores that but it
uh it stores the information in a numerical format
primarily because it will be easy for it
to search because the information is very huge,
right?
So it will, it converts it into a numerical format so that it will,
it will be easy to search so that it makes use of a semantic search,
it searches it and then it,
you know, it performs the cosine
similarity analysis.
So it does that, then it identifies, you know, OK, whether there is an uh you know,
in a match or no match and all that and then it uh you know,
gets that particular uh actual uh context, it creates that particular prompt,
then it sends it to the large language model.
And then with the,
since the response, you know,
it formats a particular response and sends it to the application.
So
because you have, you're trying to get the context of your client.
So that's why you need a vector database.
You said in the vector uh database it holds data in the numerical format.
Is there uh any limitation on what kind of data I can input?
It is going to save it in the numerical format. But can I input audio video
images, whatever it is? Or there is a limitation on that
you can, you can input, you know audio videos or whatever you're con you're sending,
right?
It all gets, it all gets converted into a numerical format.
That's how the data gets stored.
The numerical format conversion is called vector embedding.
So you create a vectors for each,
each word or sentence that you have in your input document, be it a
text like a word, document, PDF,
Excel or audio file, video file, everything.
So there is uh you know, I so we'll not be de delving deep into that. But essentially,
so you know the two for embedding you have this uh you know,
different models are available.
You know, there is this uh uh
uh you know the
Darwin C is the, then the G word to V
is the the glove.
So all these are the multiple models are there which can be used for uh you know,
converting it high level understanding what we typically
do is, you know, whenever we have to get the uh uh client specific context,
we uh vectorize the particular information we do
have embedding and then we vectorize it,
we store the information in a vector database.
Then you know there is a search that happens in that
particular vector database to see if the right context is obtained.
And then based on that, you know, the prompt is formulated with the context,
then that is sent to the large language model.
And then you know the response that is generated from that large language model,
it is uh formatted and sent back to the.
So uh application, the application could be your service.
Now it could be the Jira or it could be any attack interface, whichever, right.
So it's it is sent back to that part of this rag.
The prompt is getting created by in this process itself,
you are not doing anything like the prompt is
automatically getting created as part of the rag.
So it it actually uh
you know, get it gets the context from your vector database.
And then based on that it, you know,
the context is also included in the prompt and
then it is sent to the large language model.
So this is slightly a little more in depth as to what we discussed.
So again, uh it, it's the same thing. So for example, there is a
uh you know, and user might uh
mention, you know, there's
an
application, the time taken to open an application might be five minutes, right?
It's slow,
want to understand, you know what, why it's taking a lot of time.
Now this query it is embedded and then it's sent to the vector database.
Then what happens is we also need to have that historical, you know,
the knowledge base of the client also, right?
So why is that the performance of my application, you know, slow,
taking more than uh it's slow or why it is
taking time to five minutes to open and all that.
So for that,
you will also need a knowledge repository
and here you have your historical documents,
your standard operator
procedure or system understanding document or you know,
uh you or you might have your uh design documents whatsoever, right?
So all that is actually transformed again, this is also uh converted,
it's embedded through an embedding model and then
it is also stored into the vector database.
Now, whenever an issue occurs or whenever you want to generate some user story,
so then you know, but you go ahead and search in the vector database,
then extract that particular result. Now
then a particular, then uh you know,
formulate the particular prompt and then send it
to the large language model and you know,
uh uh formulate that response in a particular format.
And uh you know, or maybe you might want to uh provide the response in a table, right?
Or in a particular um you know, if it is an incident, right, in uh you might have,
you have an incident ID, you know,
the created date assigned to responder description.
So on right. And if it is say, for example, query might be
to generate some user stories, then you might have a user story ID,
the user story description, the created date, the acceptance criteria.
So the response will be formulated the way
you uh you are actually specifying your prompt,
then this will actually be stored interim in the memory as well.
And uh typically, it might not be just one query we might be having,
it could be a chain of prompts or chain of queries that uh you know, we might be having.
And so that's why there'll be in memory
also where we'll be storing that particular information.
Now, all the queries that we might be making use of this will be added into the memory.
And then, you know,
um and as we uh as there, while there are multiple queries, right, it might also uh
for look at the historical information from this memory and then retrieve that.
And that will,
that that outcome also will be embedded into the prompt and
then it car to be sent to the vector database.
The process that is that is uh followed.